self-serve concurrency in HCPTF (#3152)
hashicorp/web-unified-docs: content/terraform-docs-common/docs/cloud-docs/overview/estimate-cost.mdx

---
page_title: Estimate HCP Terraform cost
description: >-
   Use managed resource pricing on pay-as-you-go billing to estimate and manage your costs on HCP Terraform, or contact sales to optimize your costs.
tfc_only: true
# START AUTO GENERATED METADATA, DO NOT EDIT
created_at: 2026-08-19T21:49:02.000Z
last_modified: 2026-08-19T21:49:02.000Z
# END AUTO GENERATED METADATA
---

# Estimate HCP Terraform cost

This topic describes how to estimate your HCP Terraform costs using the usage report. HashiCorp calculates your bill depending on the number of resources the plaform manages per hour. Refer to [Managed resources](/terraform/cloud-docs/overview#managed-resources) for more information.  

<Note>

HashiCorp Cloud Platform (HCP) Europe organizations separate workspaces, resources, usage, and billing from your HCP Terraform resources in other regions. To learn more about HCP Europe, refer to [Use HCP Terraform in Europe](/terraform/cloud-docs/europe).

</Note>

## View your usage report

> Sign in to [HCP Terraform](https://app.terraform.io/) and choose **Usage** from the sidebar to navigate to a report of your organization's total number of managed resources. You can use the total number of managed resources to determine your number of billable managed resources in use at any given time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sign in to [HCP Terraform](https://app.terraform.io/) and choose **Usage** from the sidebar to navigate to a report of your organization's total number of managed resources. You can use the total number of managed resources to determine your number of billable managed resources at any given time.
```

> The Usage report provides an at-a-glance view of general usage limits in the organization:

Reviewer: Would it be more correct to say "usage and limits"?  Or "also provides a view of usage limits"?

- A summary of projects, workspaces, Stacks, and applies
- General limits for managed resources, concurrency, and agents
- Compliance feature set limits for run tasks and policies

## View your billing information

You can find your total cost in the [HashiCorp Cloud Platform portal](/hcp/docs/hcp/admin/billing#usage), which is refreshed hourly.

> The HCP portal provides detailed billing information including:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The HCP portal provides detailed billing information:
```

To make a complete sentence

- Current billing period usage
- Historical usage data
- Itemized charges
- Payment method information

## Estimate monthly costs

> To estimate your monthly costs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To estimate your monthly costs, do the following:
```

To make a complete sentence.  There may be a better way to say it.  "You can estimate your monthly costs using the Usage page and billing information:"?

1. Navigate to the **Usage** page in HCP Terraform to view your current managed resource count.
1. Use your current managed resource count to calculate estimated costs based on your plan's pricing.
1. Review the [pricing information](/terraform/cloud-docs/overview#pricing) to understand how charges are calculated.

Refer to [HCP Terraform pricing](https://www.hashicorp.com/products/terraform/pricing) for current rates and plan details.

### Example cost calculation

The following example calculation is for an HCP Terraform Essentials plan with 1,000 managed resources that operates continuously for a full month:

- Per hour price: 1,000 managed resources × $0.0001359 = $0.14
- Per month price: $0.14 × 24 hours × 30 days = $97.85

The following example calculation for the same plan factors in billable managed resource counts, partial hour billing, and peak managed resources over a 3-hour period:

1. First hour: 1,000 resources are created and calculated to cost $0.14 per hour.

> 1. Second hour: 1,000 new resources are added, 500 are changed, and then 500 are destroyed for a peak managed resource count of 2,000, billing that hour for $0.27 and a total consumption of $0.41.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Second hour: 1,000 new resources are added, 500 are changed, and then 500 are destroyed for a peak managed resource count of 2,000, billing that hour for $0.27. The running total is $0.41.
```

> 1. Third hour: No changes. The peak managed resource count of 1,500, billed for $0.20 and a total consumption of $0.61.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Third hour: No changes. The peak managed resource count of 1,500, billed for $0.20. The total consumption is $0.61.
```

## Optimize costs

To optimize your HCP Terraform costs:

- Review managed resources regularly and remove unused or unnecessary resources to reduce your managed resource count.
- Use workspaces efficiently by consolidating related resources into fewer workspaces where appropriate.
- Consider switching to a contract plan. Larger organizations can access lower rates through contract plans. [Contact HashiCorp Sales](https://www.hashicorp.com/contact-sales) to discuss contract options.

## Downgrade your plan

Pay-as-you-go customers can downgrade to HCP Terraform free plan. Refer to [Manage your HCP Terraform plan](/terraform/cloud-docs/overview/manage-plan) for instructions.

## Next steps

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The following resources will help you further understand and optimize your costs:

```
